In this lesson, let's look at a new class. It's called GameInstance.
An object of this class is created during the start of the game and is available for the entire time
while our game is running. In this class, it is convenient to store settings,
various information that does not depend on a specific level and we can read or write it at any time.
We inherit from this class. In the search, enter game instance.
We select this class, let's name it STUGameInstance. Click the create class button.
Let's write some rudimentary code to check that the given class is indeed accessible from anywhere
in our program. To do this, let's create a test variable of the FString type in the game instance class.
Let's assign it some value - Hello Game. Let's change the value of this variable
when loading the menu level. You can do this in any class, for example, in the controller class
, we already have the BeginPlay function. Let's include the header file STUGameInstance.
A pointer to the current game instance can be obtained using the UWorld object. The function is called GetGameInstance.
Functions are overloaded. One of them returns a pointer to the base class game instance,
so we can make a cast, and the second function is templated, so
we can specify our STUGameInstance class as a template parameter.
Change the value of the TestString variable. Let's write some value, for example, Menu level says helloo.
We are not doing any checks for a null pointer here, because
I will not save this code. We do it purely for the test. So, we have written a new value to TestString
and when TestLevel is started in GameModeBase, we will read the value of this variable,
for example, in the StartPlay function. Thus, we will check that the object of this class has not been recreated.
In the console, we should see the value that we wrote to the MenuPlayerController.
Don't forget about the asterisk operator. You can run editor.
Let's create a blueprint class that inherits from STUGameInstance. Put it in the content root directory. The asset has been created.
Now we need to override the base game instance class.
This is done in project settings. You can search for a game instance
and there will be a property game instance class. We specify BP_STUGameInstance here.
We open the console, clear the log, run it. Press start game and let's enter the word "says" in the search log.
And indeed the message was printed, that is, the object of the game instance class is the same for all our levels.